README.md, before:

# Devcontainers

Development containers with network isolation for AI agent security.

## Overview

This repository provides a base Dev Container template with optional features for Node.js, Python, and browser automation. All traffic is filtered through a shared Squid proxy with iptables firewall enforcement.

## Components

| Component | Location | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| Base template | `templates/base/` | General-purpose container with zsh, git-delta, proxy setup |
| Squid proxy | `squid/` | Shared traffic filtering for all containers |
| Features | `features/` | Optional: Node.js, Python, Puppeteer |

## Quick Start

### 1. Start Squid Proxy

```bash
docker compose -f squid/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### 2. Use the Base Template

Copy the `.devcontainer` directory to your project:

```bash
cp -r templates/base/.devcontainer /path/to/your/project/
```

Or reference the published template:

```json
{
  "template": "ghcr.io/gus-costa/devcontainers/base:1.0"
}
```

### 3. Open in VS Code

```bash
code /path/to/your/project
```

Then use "Dev Containers: Reopen in Container".

## Security Model

Traffic filtering uses two layers:

1. **Squid proxy** - Whitelists allowed domains (GitHub, npm, PyPI, etc.)
2. **iptables firewall** - Blocks ALL outbound traffic except to Squid

This prevents bypass via direct connections or tools that ignore proxy settings.

## Testing

Test projects are located in `test/` to verify the templates and features work correctly:

| Test Project | Purpose |
|--------------|---------|
| `test/base/` | Tests base template (zsh, firewall, proxy) |
| `test/node/` | Tests Node.js feature (Node.js + npm through proxy) |
| `test/python/` | Tests Python feature (Python + uv through proxy) |

To test:

1. Start Squid proxy: `docker compose -f squid/docker-compose.yml up -d`
2. Open a test project in VS Code
3. Use "Dev Containers: Reopen in Container"
4. Verify the test scenarios described in each devcontainer.json

See [specs/testing.md](./specs/testing.md) for firewall verification commands.

## Documentation

See the [specs/](./specs/) directory for detailed technical specifications.

## Adding Domains to Whitelist

Edit `squid/squid.conf` and add a new ACL line:

```
acl whitelisted_domains dstdomain .example.com
```

Then restart Squid:

```bash
docker compose -f squid/docker-compose.yml restart
```

Commit message:

Rewrite base template tests to match actual implementation
Updated test.sh to test actual base image features:
- Essential packages (git, vim, curl, ca-certificates, gnupg, sudo, less, unzip, jq, man-db, procps, zsh, locales, tzdata)
- git-delta installation and configuration
- Non-root user 'dev' with UID 1000 and zsh shell
- Oh My Zsh with git and fzf plugins, powerlevel10k theme
- fzf installation
- Environment variables (LANG, LC_ALL, LANGUAGE, SHELL, DEVCONTAINER, POWERLEVEL9K_DISABLE_GITSTATUS)
- Command history persistence at /commandhistory
- Locale configuration

Updated test-utils.sh checkCommon function:
- Corrected package list to match Dockerfile installation
- Removed tests for packages not in base image (apt-utils, openssh-client, wget, nano, iproute2, lsb-release, etc.)
- Removed checks for features not in base image (login-shell-path, code command)

Updated README.md:
- Corrected base template location from templates/base/ to images/base/
- Fixed test project location reference
- Updated test descriptions to reflect actual test coverage

README.md, after:

# Devcontainers

Development containers with network isolation for AI agent security.

## Overview

This repository provides a base Dev Container template with optional features for Node.js, Python, and browser automation. All traffic is filtered through a shared Squid proxy with iptables firewall enforcement.

## Components

| Component | Location | Description |
|-----------|----------|-------------|
| Base template | `images/base/` | General-purpose container with zsh, git-delta, proxy setup |
| Squid proxy | `squid/` | Shared traffic filtering for all containers |
| Features | `features/` | Optional: Node.js, Python, Puppeteer |

## Quick Start

### 1. Start Squid Proxy

```bash
docker compose -f squid/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

### 2. Use the Base Template

Copy the `.devcontainer` directory to your project:

```bash
cp -r images/base/.devcontainer /path/to/your/project/
```

Or reference the published template:

```json
{
  "template": "ghcr.io/gus-costa/devcontainers/base:1.0"
}
```

### 3. Open in VS Code

```bash
code /path/to/your/project
```

Then use "Dev Containers: Reopen in Container".

## Security Model

Traffic filtering uses two layers:

1. **Squid proxy** - Whitelists allowed domains (GitHub, npm, PyPI, etc.)
2. **iptables firewall** - Blocks ALL outbound traffic except to Squid

This prevents bypass via direct connections or tools that ignore proxy settings.

## Testing

Test projects are located in `test/` and `images/base/test-project/` to verify the templates and features work correctly:

| Test Project | Purpose |
|--------------|---------|
| `images/base/test-project/` | Tests base template (zsh, git-delta, essential packages) |
| `test/node/` | Tests Node.js feature (Node.js + npm through proxy) |
| `test/python/` | Tests Python feature (Python + uv through proxy) |

To test:

1. Start Squid proxy: `docker compose -f squid/docker-compose.yml up -d`
2. Open a test project in VS Code
3. Use "Dev Containers: Reopen in Container"
4. Verify the test scenarios described in each devcontainer.json

See [specs/testing.md](./specs/testing.md) for firewall verification commands.

## Documentation

See the [specs/](./specs/) directory for detailed technical specifications.

## Adding Domains to Whitelist

Edit `squid/squid.conf` and add a new ACL line:

```
acl whitelisted_domains dstdomain .example.com
```

Then restart Squid:

```bash
docker compose -f squid/docker-compose.yml restart
```
